Ventoy Swiss Army Knife (#179)
Microsoft-community/Community-website: src/wiki/ventoy.md

# Creating a Multi-OS Bootable Drive (with Ventoy)
In this article, you will learn how to create a multi-OS bootable drive. 

## Creating the Bootable Drive

> This section will teach you how to create a bootable drive for your needs.

Reviewer: This kinda feels like a duplicate of line 2. Opinions on this?

Author: Done

1. Download Ventoy [here](https://www.ventoy.net/en/download.html). This is the tool that we will be using to create a bootable drive.

> ::: Warning

Reviewer: Why is the warning here?

2. Plug in a USB drive that has at least 8GB.

> 3. Right click on the file that you have just downloaded and select extract. Then, enter the folder named `ventoy-1.0.xx` and open an application named `Ventoy2Disk.exe`. A UAC prompt will pop-up, click yes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Extract the file that you just downloaded. Then, enter the folder named `ventoy-1.0.xx` (where xx is the version of Ventoy that is in the file) and open an application named `Ventoy2Disk.exe`. In the UAC prompt, allow Administrator access to Ventoy by clicking yes.
```

> 4. Select a drive in the device selection section. This will be your bootable drive. If you can't see the drive you want to use, press the green button to refresh the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Select a drive in the device selection field. This will be the USB drive where Ventoy will be installed on. If the drive you wish to use is not in the list, try refreshing it by clicking the green button.
```

> In this area, you will see how to create your USB for being bootable.

Reviewer: You marked Acto's comment as resolved but it appears that nothing has changed on line 11?

> 1. [Download the Ventoy application that will help us to make the USB being capable with various ISOs.](https://www.ventoy.net/en/download.html)

Reviewer: Why are we downloading ventoy again here?

![Download page of Gparted](img/ventoy/Gparted.png)

> 6. Click install, and Ventoy will create a bootable drive for you. After it finishes, you will see a drive named as "Ventoy", this is where you will place your ISO files for the bootable drive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Finally click install. Ventoy will then make the USB drive bootable. Once it's done, you should see a drive named "Ventoy" in File Explorer. This is where you can place all your ISO files.
```

3. For this time, we will use the Ventoy2Disk.exe, we click on it, and we click to “yes” in the UAC screen that pooped.

> 4. Then at devices section select your USB that you want to make a Ventoy or if you can't see it press the green button to refresh the list.

Reviewer: Didn't we literally just do this?

> ## Downloading Windows to the Bootable Drive

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Adding a Windows ISO to your Ventoy drive
```

### Downloading the ISO file
![Menu for selecting settings in Ventoy](<img/ventoy/Secure boot and GPT.png>)

> 6. At the last step, click on install and wait some seconds to get the job done.

Reviewer: What is happening here, why are there more steps of the installation here? Shouldn't this screenshot be on line 14?

> For Windows 11, go to [https://www.microsoft.com/software-download/windows11](https://www.microsoft.com/software-download/windows11)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To download Windows 11 (Recommended), head to [https://www.microsoft.com/software-download/windows11](https://www.microsoft.com/software-download/windows11)
To download Windows 11, go to [https://www.microsoft.com/software-download/windows10](https://www.microsoft.com/software-download/windows10)```

::: tip

> If you are not on Windows, you will see an option to "Select Edition". Select the proper edition, and language, and download the file. Once the download finishes, move the ISO file to the Ventoy drive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can select the edition, and language you want.
```

:::

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Once the download finishes, move the ISO file to the Ventoy drive.

```

   ![](./img/downloading-windows/licenseterms.png)

2. The next screen you see will be this, wait for the installer to complete preparation.
4. Use the recommended settings, or select your preferred Language, Edition, and Architecture.
   ![](./img/downloading-windows/gettingthings.png)
::: tip Note
If you're planning to install Windows on another PC and don't know what architecture it uses, then select "Both".
:::
   — You need to click on:**want to reinstall Windows on another computer** click **Create installation media**.

    ![](./img/downloading-windows/whatdoyouwanttodo.png)
5. Select **ISO file**, then press next.
4. Select the correct Architecture, Edition, and Language of Windows, or use the recommended settings.

   ::: tip Note
   If you're planning on installing Windows on another PC and don't know what to select for the architecture, then choose both x86 and x64.
   :::

   ![](./img/downloading-windows/changelanguagearchitecture.png)
Once the file has been downloaded, copy it to the Ventoy Drive.
5. On the Media Creation Tool, select **ISO file**.

You can read more about reinstalling Windows [here](installing-windows).

> 6. Select a path to save to.

Reviewer: Didn't we literally just download windows earlier? Perhaps make this a 2-method process under Downloading Windows, and 1 method would be the website and the other would be the MCT.

## Downloading Antiviruses

> If you want to detect and remove any malware or rootkits that your computer has been infected with, you can try the following options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use an offline antivirus ISO file to scan your computer for any malware that it may have been infected with.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Microsoft Defender Offline
```

>  - Microsoft Defender Offline: [32-bit](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=234123), [64-bit](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=234124)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ISO File: [32-bit](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=234123), [64-bit](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=234124)
```

> Download the ISO, and copy it to your Ventoy Drive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you download the ISO file, copy it to your Ventoy drive.
```

> The instructions for installing or reinstalling Windows in your pc are here: [Installing Windows](installing-windows).

Reviewer: This should be higher up in the Windows section.

> :::

Reviewer: what container are we closing here?

> ## Download the AV

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> If you want to detect rootkits and malware that got infected in your computer, and you want to clean them, use you can use one you've here listed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>  - Kaspersky: https://www.kaspersky.com/downloads/free-rescue-disk (Not usable in US).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Kaspersky
ISOI File: https://www.kaspersky.com/downloads/free-rescue-disk (Not usable in US).
```

>  - Microsoft Defender Offline: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/help-protect-my-pc-with-microsoft-defender-offline-9306d528-64bf-4668-5b80-ff533f183d6c (head into Windows 8.1 and 7 to know how to download your .iso).

Reviewer: We just download it earlier though. Is this a documentation link? Perhaps add it to the section above for MDO.
```suggestion
```

> With the ISO, send it to your Ventoy USB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally copy the ISO to your Ventoy drive.
```

> After that, copy the ISO file to your Ventoy Drive.
> The usage is very simple, just you click to update the antivirus databases and run the scan following the instructions on your screen.
> :::

Reviewer: We've already explained that they need to copy the file. No need for the explanation on how to use it, if the AV section is even necessary at all.

```suggestion
```

> Instructions on using Clonezilla are available [here](https://clonezilla.org//clonezilla-live-doc.php).

Reviewer: Removing to place under the clonezilla section.
```suggestion
```

## Clonezilla

> Clonezilla is great software for managing (backup and restore, clone)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Instructions on using Clonezilla are available [here](https://clonezilla.org//clonezilla-live-doc.php).**
Clonezilla is great software for managing (backup and restore, clone)
```

> Download the ISO here, selecting your architecture (amd64:  x86_64/
> i686=32-bit) and selecting ISO as file type: https://clonezilla.org//downloads/download.php?branch=stable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Download the ISO here :  https://clonezilla.org//downloads/download.php?branch=stable.

::: tip Note
For amd64 choose x86_64. For i686 choose 32-bit.
You also need to select ISO as the filetype.
:::
```

> After that, copy the ISO file to your Ventoy Drive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copy the downloaded ISO to your Ventoy drive.
```

Instructions on using Gparted are available [here](https://gparted.org/display-doc.php?name=help-manual).

> All the steps using will be covered at: https://clonezilla.org//clonezilla-live-doc.php

Reviewer: Perhaps place these under the Gparted section? Also what is clonezilla supposed to do here?

> :::

Reviewer: smh
```suggestion
```

## Gparted

> Gparted is a powerful tool that helps you to manage partitions, and you can copy them to other disks or inside.

Reviewer: What exactly are you trying to say here?

> Download the ISO here, selecting your architecture (amd64:  x86_64/ i686=32-bit) and selecting ISO as file type: https://gparted.org/download.php.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Download the ISO here :  https://gparted.org/download.php.
::: tip Note
For amd64 choose x86_64. For i686 choose 32-bit.
You also need to select ISO as the filetype.
:::
```

> With the ISO, send it to your Ventoy USB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copy the downloaded ISO to your Ventoy drive.
```

# Creating a Multi-OS Bootable Drive (with Ventoy)
In this article, you will learn how to create a multi-OS bootable drive. 

Having a bootable USB at all times can help you when you need to reinstall an OS, and a multi-OS bootable drive can allow you to install different OS without having to reformat a drive.

## Creation of the USB
This section will teach you how to create a bootable drive for your needs.

::: Warning
Installing Ventoy to create a bootable drive **will wipe all your data from that drive**. Back up your data on the drive before proceeding.
:::
1. Download Ventoy [here](https://www.ventoy.net/en/download.html). This is the tool that we will be using to create a bootable drive.

> ![Download page of Gparted](img/ventoy/Gparted.png)

Reviewer 2: Image does not match the link provided.

4. Select a drive in the device selection section. This will be your bootable drive. If you can't see the drive you want to use, press the green button to refresh the list.
![Select USB](<img/ventoy/Ventoy screen.png>)
5. And the top right of the program click on options and get sure that the secure boot option is enabled and in partition stile select “GPT”.
![Menu for selecting settings in Ventoy](<img/ventoy/Secure boot and GPT.png>)
6. Click install, and Ventoy will create a bootable drive for you. After it finishes, you will see a drive named as "Ventoy", this is where you will place your ISO files for the bootable drive.
![Click on Install button](img/ventoy/Install.png)

## Downloading Windows to the Bootable Drive
### Downloading the ISO file

1. For Windows 10, go to [https://www.microsoft.com/software-download/windows10](https://www.microsoft.com/software-download/windows10) <br>
To download Windows 11 (Recommended), head to [https://www.microsoft.com/software-download/windows11](https://www.microsoft.com/software-download/windows11)

> To download Windows 11, go to [https://www.microsoft.com/software-download/windows10](https://www.microsoft.com/software-download/windows10)```

Reviewer 2: Duplicated
```suggestion

```

::: tip

> You can select the edition, and language you want.

Reviewer 2: This was not the change i suggested.

```suggestion
If you are not on Windows, you will see an option to "Select Edition". Select the proper edition, and language, and download the file. Once the download finishes, move the ISO file to the Ventoy drive.
```

:::

> Once the download finishes, move the ISO file to the Ventoy drive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

Once the file has been downloaded, copy it to the Ventoy Drive.

::: tip Note
You can read more about reinstalling Windows [here](installing-windows).
:::

If you want to detect and remove any malware or rootkits that your computer has been infected with, you can try the following options.
### Kaspersky
ISOI File: https://www.kaspersky.com/downloads/free-rescue-disk (Not usable in US).
 - Microsoft Defender Offline: [32-bit](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=234123), [64-bit](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=234124)

After you download the ISO file, copy it to your Ventoy drive.

::: tip Note
The usage is very simple, just you click to update the antivirus databases and run the scan following the instructions on your screen.
:::

## Clonezilla
**Instructions on using Clonezilla are available [here](https://clonezilla.org//clonezilla-live-doc.php).**
Clonezilla is great software for managing (backup and restore, clone)
Download the ISO here :  https://clonezilla.org//downloads/download.php?branch=stable.

::: tip Note
For amd64 choose x86_64. For i686 choose 32-bit.
You also need to select ISO as the filetype.
:::

After that, copy the ISO file to your Ventoy Drive.

> ::: tip Note

Reviewer 2: This tip note isn't closed

::: tip
If you are not on Windows, you will see an option to "Select Edition". Select the proper edition, and language, and download the file. Once the download finishes, move the ISO file to the Ventoy drive.
:::

2. Click the **Download Tool Now** button.

   ![](./img/downloading-windows/downloadtoolnow.png)

3. After the tool has been downloaded, run it.

### Using the tool

1. The first thing you will see is this screen, click Accept.

   ![](./img/downloading-windows/licenseterms.png)

2. Wait for the installer to prepare the files needed.

   ![](./img/downloading-windows/gettingthings.png)

3. Select **Create installation media for another PC**, then press next.

    ![](./img/downloading-windows/whatdoyouwanttodo.png)

4. Use the recommended settings, or select your preferred Language, Edition, and Architecture.

::: tip Note
If you're planning to install Windows on another PC and don't know what architecture it uses, select "Both".
:::

   ![](./img/downloading-windows/changelanguagearchitecture.png)

5. Select **ISO file**, then press next.

![](./img/downloading-windows/mediatouse.png)

> 6. Select a path to save to.

Author: holy smokes

# Creating a Multi-OS Bootable Drive (with Ventoy)

> In this article, you will learn how to create a multi-OS bootable drive. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this article, you will learn how to create a multi-OS bootable drive. using Ventoy 
```

> Having a bootable USB at all times can help you when you need to reinstall an OS, and a multi-OS bootable drive can allow you to install different OS without having to reformat a drive.

Reviewer 3: Unnecessary and fix
```suggestion
Having a bootable USB can help you when you need to reinstall an OS, and a multi-OS bootable drive can allow you to install different OSes without having to reformat a USB drive.
```

## Creation of the USB
This section will teach you how to create a bootable drive for your needs.

::: danger
Installing Ventoy to create a bootable drive **will wipe all your data from that drive**. Back up your data on the drive before proceeding.
:::
1. Download Ventoy [here](https://www.ventoy.net/en/download.html). This is the tool that we will be using to create a bootable drive.
![Download page of Gparted](img/ventoy/Gparted.png)
2. Plug in a USB drive that has at least 8GB.
3. Right click on the file that you have just downloaded and select extract. Then, enter the folder named `ventoy-1.0.xx` and open an application named `Ventoy2Disk.exe`. A UAC prompt will pop-up, click yes.
4. Select a drive in the device selection section. This will be your bootable drive. If you can't see the drive you want to use, press the green button to refresh the list.

> ![Select USB](<img/ventoy/Ventoy screen.png>)
> 5. And the top right of the program click on options and get sure that the secure boot option is enabled and in partition stile select “GPT”.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
![Select USB](<img/ventoy/Ventoy screen.png>)

5. And the top right of the program click on options and get sure that the secure boot option is enabled and in partition stile select “GPT”.
```

> ![Menu for selecting settings in Ventoy](<img/ventoy/Secure boot and GPT.png>)
> 6. Click install, and Ventoy will create a bootable drive for you. After it finishes, you will see a drive named as "Ventoy", this is where you will place your ISO files for the bootable drive.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
![Menu for selecting settings in Ventoy](<img/ventoy/Secure boot and GPT.png>)

6. Click install, and Ventoy will create a bootable drive for you. After it finishes, you will see a drive named as "Ventoy", this is where you will place your ISO files for the bootable drive.
```

![Click on Install button](img/ventoy/Install.png)

## Downloading Windows to the Bootable Drive
### Downloading the ISO file

1. For Windows 10, go to [https://www.microsoft.com/software-download/windows10](https://www.microsoft.com/software-download/windows10) <br>

> To download Windows 11 (Recommended), head to [https://www.microsoft.com/software-download/windows11](https://www.microsoft.com/software-download/windows11)

Reviewer 3: If Windows 11 is recommended, why not put that first?

Also this entire section duplicates https://msft.chat/wiki/downloading-windows, just link there and mention the differences here.

::: tip
If you are not on Windows, you will see an option to "Select Edition". Select the proper edition, and language, and download the file. Once the download finishes, move the ISO file to the Ventoy drive.
:::

2. Click the **Download Tool Now** button.

   ![](./img/downloading-windows/downloadtoolnow.png)

3. After the tool has been downloaded, run it.

### Using the tool

1. The first thing you will see is this screen, click Accept.

   ![](./img/downloading-windows/licenseterms.png)

2. Wait for the installer to prepare the files needed.

   ![](./img/downloading-windows/gettingthings.png)

> 3. This is where you select what you want to do.
> 
> Select **Create installation media for another PC**, then press next.

Reviewer 3: Unnecessary sentence
```suggestion
3. Select **Create installation media for another PC**, then press next.
```

    ![](./img/downloading-windows/whatdoyouwanttodo.png)

4. Use the recommended settings, or select your preferred Language, Edition, and Architecture.

::: tip Note

> If you're planning to install Windows on another PC and don't know what architecture it uses, then select "Both".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you're planning to install Windows on another PC and don't know what architecture it uses, select "Both".
```

:::

   ![](./img/downloading-windows/changelanguagearchitecture.png)

5. Select **ISO file**, then press next.

![](./img/downloading-windows/mediatouse.png)

6. Select a path to save to.

> ### Microsoft Defender Offline

Reviewer 3: This section starts abruptly and seems to carry on from the previous section, please fix this

After that, Windows will start downloading the ISO file.

> Once the file has been downloaded, copy it to the Ventoy Drive.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
7. Once the ISO file has been downloaded, copy it to the Ventoy Drive.
```

::: tip Note
For amd64 choose x86_64. For i686 choose 32-bit.
You also need to select ISO as the filetype.

> :::

Reviewer 3: Select this where? This sounds like it should be in a different place, where these choices are backed up by screenshots

::: tip Note

> You can read more about reinstalling Windows [here](installing-windows).

Reviewer 3: Avoid `here` links
```suggestion
You can read more about reinstalling Windows on the [Installing Windows](installing-windows) wiki page.
```

:::

If you want to detect and remove any malware or rootkits that your computer has been infected with, you can try the following options.
### Kaspersky
ISOI File: https://www.kaspersky.com/downloads/free-rescue-disk (Not usable in US).

>  - Microsoft Defender Offline: [32-bit](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=234123), [64-bit](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=234124)

Reviewer 3: Why is Defender in a section about Kaspersky? Either separate these out (Defender is missing a link in its section) or combine them into one section with two choices.

After you download the ISO file, copy it to your Ventoy drive.

::: tip Note
For amd64 choose x86_64. For i686 choose 32-bit.
You also need to select ISO as the filetype.
:::

::: tip Note

> The usage is very simple, just you click to update the antivirus databases and run the scan following the instructions on your screen.

Reviewer 3: Avoid patronizing users + grammar fix
```suggestion
The usage should be simple, click to update the antivirus databases and run the scan following the instructions on your screen.
```

:::

## Clonezilla

> **Instructions on using Clonezilla are available [here](https://clonezilla.org//clonezilla-live-doc.php).**

Reviewer 3: Duplicates a section below.
```suggestion
```

Clonezilla is great software for managing (backup and restore, clone)

> Download the ISO here :  https://clonezilla.org//downloads/download.php?branch=stable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Download the ISO here: https://clonezilla.org//downloads/download.php?branch=stable.
```

::: tip Note
For amd64 choose x86_64. For i686 choose 32-bit.
You also need to select ISO as the filetype.
:::

After that, copy the ISO file to your Ventoy Drive.

::: tip Note

> Instructions on using Clonezilla are available [here](https://clonezilla.org//clonezilla-live-doc.php).

Reviewer 3: Why is this one a hyperlink and the others arent?
```suggestion
Instructions on using Clonezilla are available here: https://clonezilla.org//clonezilla-live-doc.php
```

:::

## Gparted
Gparted is a powerful tool that helps you to manage partitions, and you can copy them to other disks or inside.

> Download the ISO here :  https://gparted.org/download.php.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Download the ISO here: https://gparted.org/download.php.
```

::: tip Note
For amd64 choose x86_64. For i686 choose 32-bit.
You also need to select ISO as the filetype.
:::

After that, copy the ISO file to your Ventoy Drive.

> ::: tip Note
> For amd64 choose x86_64. For i686 choose 32-bit.
> You also need to select ISO as the filetype.
> :::

Reviewer 3: This is repeated

```suggestion
```

# Creating a Multi-OS Bootable Drive (with Ventoy)

> In this article, you will learn how to create a multi-OS bootable USB drive. using Ventoy 

Reviewer 4: You ended this sentence too early
```suggestion
In this article, you will learn how to create a multi-OS bootable USB drive using Ventoy.
```

> Ventoy is a tool that allows you to create a bootable USB drive, with multiple operating systems or recovery tools. Unlike other software, Ventoy allows you to simply store the ISO files **directly** on the USB. This can be really helpful if you have a suite of tools that you often use and you don't want to use a different USB drive for each one of them.

Reviewer 4: You don't need a comma here
```suggestion
Ventoy is a tool that allows you to create a bootable USB drive with multiple operating systems or recovery tools. Unlike other software, Ventoy allows you to simply store the ISO files **directly** on the USB. This can be really helpful if you have a suite of tools that you often use and you don't want to use a different USB drive for each one of them.
```

> ## Creation of the USB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Installing Ventoy on a USB
```

> In this section, you will learn how to use the Ventoy-to-USB tool, to install Ventoy on your USB.

Reviewer 4: Another unnecessary comma
```suggestion
In this section, you will learn how to use the Ventoy-to-USB tool to install Ventoy on your USB.
```

> ::: danger

Reviewer: ```suggestion
::: warning Caution
```

Installing Ventoy **will wipe all data on the target drive**. Back up your data before proceeding, or use a drive that you know is empty.
:::
1. Download the [Ventoy-to-USB tool](https://www.ventoy.net/en/download.html). Since Ventoy is open-source, [you can also download the latest release from GitHub](https://github.com/ventoy/Ventoy/releases).

> /

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\
```

> 1. Download the Ventoy-to-USB tool here [here](https://www.ventoy.net/en/download.html). Since Ventoy is open-source, [you can also download the latest release from GitHub](https://github.com/ventoy/Ventoy/releases).

Reviewer 4: It might be better to be more descriptive with what you're hyperlinking here. You also said `here` twice. Is it necessary to mention that it is open source? How does this help readers who are following the steps?
```suggestion
1. Download the [Ventoy-to-USB tool](https://www.ventoy.net/en/download.html). Since Ventoy is open-source, [you can also download the latest release from GitHub](https://github.com/ventoy/Ventoy/releases).
```

![Download page of Ventoy](<img/ventoy/Ventoy download.png>)
2. Plug-in the drive you want to use, which should have at least 8GB available.
3. Right click on the file that you have just downloaded and select extract. Then, inside the folder named `ventoy-1.x.xx`, run the executable named `Ventoy2Disk.exe`. A UAC prompt will pop-up, click yes.
4. Select your drive in the device drop-down menu. If your drive is not in the list, try clicking the green refresh button.

> /

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\
```

![Select USB](<img/ventoy/Ventoy screen.png>)
5. Click the Install button to install Ventoy on the drive. After it has finished, you will see a drive called "Ventoy" in File Explorer. This is where you can store the ISO files.

> /

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\
```

> 5. Click the Install button, to install Ventoy on the drive. After it has finished, you will see a drive called "Ventoy" in file explorer. This is where you can store the ISO files.

Reviewer 4: File Explorer is a proper noun, it should be capitalized. You also had a unnecessary comma here.
```suggestion
5. Click the Install button to install Ventoy on the drive. After it has finished, you will see a drive called "Ventoy" in File Explorer. This is where you can store the ISO files.
```

> ![Click on Install button](/img/ventoy/Install.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Click on Install button](img/ventoy/Install.png)
```

# Creating a Multi-OS Bootable Drive (with Ventoy)
In this article, you will learn how to create a multi-OS bootable USB drive using Ventoy.

Ventoy is a tool that allows you to create a bootable USB drive with multiple operating systems or recovery tools. Unlike other software, Ventoy allows you to simply store the ISO files **directly** on the USB. This can be really helpful if you have a suite of tools that you often use and you don't want to use a different USB drive for each one of them.

## Installing Ventoy on a USB
In this section, you will learn how to use the Ventoy-to-USB tool to install Ventoy on your USB.

::: warning Caution
Installing Ventoy **will wipe all data on the target drive**. Back up your data before proceeding, or use a drive that you know is empty.
:::

1. Download the [Ventoy-to-USB tool](https://www.ventoy.net/en/download.html). Since Ventoy is open-source, [you can also download the latest release from GitHub](https://github.com/ventoy/Ventoy/releases).

    ![Download page of Ventoy](<img/ventoy/Ventoy download.png>)

2. Plug-in the drive you want to use, which should have at least 8GB available.

> 3. Right click on the file that you have just downloaded and select extract. Then, inside the folder named `ventoy-1.x.xx`, run the executable named `Ventoy2Disk.exe`. A UAC prompt will pop-up, click yes.

Reviewer 2: Ambiguous instruction, you should state to right-click on the file in explorer

Something like 
```suggestion
3. In File Explorer, right-click on the file that you have just downloaded and select Extract. Then, inside the folder named `ventoy-1.x.xx`, run the executable named `Ventoy2Disk.exe`. A UAC prompt will pop up, click Yes.
```

4. Select your drive in the device drop-down menu. If your drive is not in the list, try clicking the green refresh button.

    ![Select USB](<img/ventoy/Ventoy screen.png>)
    
5. Click the Install button to install Ventoy on the drive. After it has finished, you will see a drive called "Ventoy" in File Explorer. This is where you can store the ISO files.

    ![Click on Install button](img/ventoy/Install.png)

## Downloading ISO files
### Windows
To download a Windows ISO file, refer to the [Downloading Windows](./downloading-windows.md) page.

::: tip Note
You can read more about reinstalling Windows on the [Installing Windows](installing-windows) wiki page.
:::

### Other tools

> - **Kaspersky Rescue Disk** (Antivirus): https://www.kaspersky.com/downloads/free-rescue-disk (Not available in the US).

Reviewer 2: Do we need the periods at the end of each item?

- **Microsoft Defender Offline** (Antivirus):
    - [32-bit version](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=234123)
    - [64-bit version](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=234124)

> - **Clonezilla** (Disk imaging and cloning): https://clonezilla.org//downloads/download.php?branch=stable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Clonezilla** (Disk imaging and cloning): https://clonezilla.org/downloads/download.php?branch=stable.
```

::: tip Note
For amd64 choose x86_64. For i686 choose 32-bit.
You also need to select ISO as the filetype.
:::

::: tip Note
The usage should be simple, click to update the antivirus databases and run the scan following the instructions on your screen.
:::

## Clonezilla
Clonezilla is great software for managing (backup and restore, clone)
Download the ISO here: https://clonezilla.org//downloads/download.php?branch=stable.

::: tip Note
For amd64 choose x86_64. For i686 choose 32-bit.
You also need to select ISO as the filetype.
:::

After that, copy the ISO file to your Ventoy USB Drive.

::: tip Note
Instructions on using Clonezilla are available here: https://clonezilla.org//clonezilla-live-doc.php
:::

## Gparted
Gparted is a powerful tool that helps you to manage partitions, and you can copy them to other disks or inside.
Download the ISO here: https://gparted.org/download.php.
::: tip Note
For amd64 choose x86_64. For i686 choose 32-bit.
You also need to select ISO as the filetype.
:::

After that, copy the ISO file to your Ventoy USB Drive.

::: tip Note
Instructions on using Gparted are available [here](https://gparted.org/display-doc.php?name=help-manual).

> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Other tools
- **Kaspersky Rescue Disk** (Antivirus): https://www.kaspersky.com/downloads/free-rescue-disk (Not available in the US).

- **Microsoft Defender Offline** (Antivirus):
    - [32-bit version](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=234123)
    - [64-bit version](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=234124)

- **Clonezilla** (Disk imaging and cloning): https://clonezilla.org//downloads/download.php?branch=stable.

- **Gparted** (Disk partitioning): https://gparted.org/download.php.

Author: real

# Create your multi-tool USB
With this guild, you will discover how to create your multi-tool USB for various situations that will be too helpful.

## Creation of the USB
In this area, you will see how to create your USB for being bootable.
1. [Download the Ventoy application that will help us to make the USB being capable with various ISOs.](https://www.ventoy.net/en/download.html)

> ![Download page of Gparted](img/ventoy/Gparted.png)

Author: ?

> ![Download page of Gparted](img/ventoy/Gparted.png)

Reviewer 3: You are providing the image for gparted, when this is about ventoy.

> ![Download page of Gparted](img/ventoy/Gparted.png)

Author: Fixed

2. Grab a USB stick that is recommended to have more than 8gb and plug it into your PC.
3. For this time, we will use the Ventoy2Disk.exe, we click on it, and we click to “yes” in the UAC screen that pooped.
4. Then at devices section select your USB that you want to make a Ventoy or if you can't see it press the green button to refresh the list.
![Select USB](<img/ventoy/Ventoy screen.png>)

> 5. And the top right of the program click on options and get sure that the secure boot option is enabled and in partition stile select “GPT”.

Reviewer 3: Agreed, needs rewording or removing

![Menu for selecting settings in Ventoy](<img/ventoy/Secure boot and GPT.png>)
6. At the last step, click on install and wait some seconds to get the job done.
![Click on Install button](img/ventoy/Install.png)

## Downloading windows
### Downloading the tool for downloading the ISO

1. For Windows 10, go to [https://www.microsoft.com/software-download/windows10](https://www.microsoft.com/software-download/windows10) <br>
   For Windows 11, go to [https://www.microsoft.com/software-download/windows11](https://www.microsoft.com/software-download/windows11)

2. Click the **Download Tool Now** button.

   ![](./img/downloading-windows/downloadtoolnow.png)

3. After the tool has been downloaded, run it.

### Using the tool

1. The first thing you will see is this screen, click Accept.

   ![](./img/downloading-windows/licenseterms.png)

2. The next screen you see will be this, wait for the installer to complete preparation.

   ![](./img/downloading-windows/gettingthings.png)

3. This is where you select what you want to do.

>    — You need to click on:**want to reinstall Windows on another computer** click **Create installation media**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Select **Create installation media for another PC**, then press next.
```

    ![](./img/downloading-windows/whatdoyouwanttodo.png)

> 4. Select the correct Architecture, Edition, and Language of Windows, or use the recommended settings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Use the recommended settings, or select your preferred Language, Edition, and Architecture.
```

>    ::: tip Note

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
::: tip Note
```

>    If you're planning on installing Windows on another PC and don't know what to select for the architecture, then choose both x86 and x64.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're planning to install Windows on another PC and don't know what architecture it uses, then select "Both".
```

>    :::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::
```

   ![](./img/downloading-windows/changelanguagearchitecture.png)

> 5. On the Media Creation Tool, select **ISO file**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Select **ISO file**, then press next.
```

![](./img/downloading-windows/mediatouse.png)

6. Select a path to save to.

After that, Windows will start downloading the ISO file.

> Once is done, copy that file to your USB

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the file has been downloaded, copy it to the Ventoy Drive.
```

::: tip Note

> The instructions for installing or reinstalling Windows in your pc are here: [Installing Windows](installing-windows).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can read more about reinstalling Windows [here](installing-windows).
```

:::

> ## Download the AV

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Downloading Antiviruses
```

> If you want to detect rootkits and malware that got infected in your computer, and you want to clean them, use you can use one you've here listed:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to detect and remove any malware or rootkits that your computer has been infected with, you can try the following options.
```

 - Kaspersky: https://www.kaspersky.com/downloads/free-rescue-disk (Not usable in US).

>  - Microsoft Defender Offline: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/help-protect-my-pc-with-microsoft-defender-offline-9306d528-64bf-4668-5b80-ff533f183d6c (head into Windows 8.1 and 7 to know how to download your .iso).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Microsoft Defender Offline: [32-bit](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=234123), [64-bit](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=234124)
```

> With the ISO, send it to your Ventoy USB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Download the ISO, and copy it to your Ventoy Drive.
```

::: tip Note

> The usage is very simple, just you click to update the antivirus databases and run the scan following the instructions on your screen.

Reviewer 2: Is this neccessary?

Reviewer 5: Why do we need AV to scan USB? Are we scanning ISO files for that?

Author: @avogato It's for scanning the system for detect viruses and stuff.

:::

## Clonezilla
Clonezilla is great software for managing (backup and restore, clone)
Download the ISO here, selecting your architecture (amd64:  x86_64/
i686=32-bit) and selecting ISO as file type: https://clonezilla.org//downloads/download.php?branch=stable.

> With the ISO, send it to your Ventoy USB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After that, copy the ISO file to your Ventoy Drive.
```

::: tip Note

> All the steps using will be covered at: https://clonezilla.org//clonezilla-live-doc.php

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instructions on using Clonezilla are available [here](https://clonezilla.org//clonezilla-live-doc.php).
```

:::

## Gparted
Gparted is a powerful tool that helps you to manage partitions, and you can copy them to other disks or inside.
Download the ISO here, selecting your architecture (amd64:  x86_64/ i686=32-bit) and selecting ISO as file type: https://gparted.org/download.php.

> With the ISO, send it to your Ventoy USB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

After that, copy the ISO file to your Ventoy Drive.
```

::: tip Note

> All the steps using will be covered at: https://gparted.org/display-doc.php?name=help-manual

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instructions on using Gparted are available [here](https://gparted.org/display-doc.php?name=help-manual).
```
